{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf102
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Meteorologist 1.3.0\
Instructions\
\
I feared this day, that Meteorologist may become complex enough that it would require a manual of sorts.  That interface is becoming better, but some small things still need to be addressed.  So, this document is going to be a mini walk through guide with advanced features explained from time to time.  Hopefully you will find this document useful and not entirely boring and dry (I'll do my best).\
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f1\b \cf0 I. My first city\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f0\b0 \cf0 \
The first time you launch Meteorologist, you should notice three things:\
1. There is no Dock icon\
2. "No Weather" is displayed in the menu bar\
3. A Window is presented called Cities\
\
The absence of a dock icon is the default setting.  There is a preference to change this setting so that Meteo displays info in the dock instead of the menu bar, although that change only takes effect the next time Meteo is launched.\
\
The "No Weather" text indicates that there are no active cities.  And if you look in the Cities window, you will notice an empty table.  Therefore, the first thing we need to do is add a city.\
\
To add a city, click the "Add City" button on the "Cities window."  This will present another window labeled "City Editor."  The first thing to do here is to enter what you want to call your location you're finding data on.  You can call it "Home" or "Work" or whatever you like.  We'll skip the two pop up buttons for now and move down to the search area.  You will probably notice that the field labeled City Search is already filled in with what you typed for your city name.  In this field, put what you would if you were searching a website for your city - that is, not "Home."  After performing a search, you will see a list of cities; from this list, choose your city.\
\
Remember those pop up buttons we skipped?  The first, next to the words "Weather Servers," probably has a title of Weather.com.  What you have just done is searched Weather.com for your city - now Meteo can get weather info off of Weather.com.  Meteo supports multiple weather sources, so if you would like to get weather info off of Wunderground.com or the National Weather Service (US only), then you can select their name in the "Weather Servers" pop up button and then perform the search again.\
\
After you have found your city for all the servers you want to use (most people will probably just use Weather.com), you should click the "Weather Items" tab.  here you will find two tables with a lot of information.  These two table control what weather data is displayed (Temperature, Humidity, Wind Chill), and how.  The "On" column controls if the weather item is displayed.  The "Property" column displays the name of the weather item for a particular row.  The "Unit Selection" column allows you to change the units of a particular item (there is a global preference for changing all items for all cities if you don't want to individualize the process here).  The "Server Selection" column displays (1) all serves that provide data for a weather item, and (2) all servers that the will relay data about a particular weather item.  This means that if Weather.com always displays bad Temperature data for your city, but everything else is okay, then you can deselect Weather.com from Temperature's server list, and then the Temperature data will come from either Wunderground.com or NWS.  One last note: you can also rearrange the order of weather items by a simple drag and drop - the order in this table is the same order that items will be displayed in Meteo's menu items.\
\
Finally, notice the pop up button and "Import this cities preferences" button near the bottom of the tab.  They may be enabled or grayed out (depending on if you've already created at least one city).  What this allows you to do is import the preferences from another city - this way you don't have to keep entering the same preferences over and over again.\
\
Finally, hit the Confirm button.  If you haven't performed a successful search, if you forgot to enter a city name, or if you entered a city name that you already used for another city, then you will be prompted with an error.\
\
After a few seconds (depending on the speed of your network), you should see your city in the menu bar (or Dock).\
\
Note: Don't like the order of your cities in the City window?  Just drag and drop them around the table to make the order that best fits your style.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f1\b \cf0 II. Playing with preferences
\f0\b0 \
\
The preference system of 1.2 is pretty much the same as with 1.1 with some nice new additions.  To access the preferences, click on the menu bar item (or right click the dock icon) and navigate to Controls -> Preferences.  This should load up the preference window (sometimes this fails - it seems a second click will bring it up in the odd case where it doesn't come out).\
\
In the "Weather" tab, you will first find "Current Weather" preferences, although not many.  Both Extended Forecast and Current Weather items can be displayed as a list (under the city name there will be just a big list of current conditions and forecast items) or as separate lists in their separate sub menus.  In fact, if you wouldn't like to see Extended forecast items at all, simply uncheck the switch labeled "View extended forecast."  You can also disable forecast images here (this does not control city image - see the Display tab for that preference),  The "forecast inline"preference allows all the forecast data for one day to be display on one line instead of in multiple sub lines; some people prefer this method.  In the "Number of days" pop up button, you can also choose the number of days into the future you want to display long term forecast info.\
\
The "Update Interval" box contains the amount of time between updates.  The first mode is a basic, vanilla, update all the active cities mode.  The second mode cycles the "main" city (the one that shows in the menu bar or dock).  The check box is slightly more exciting.  Here's how it works - let's say you have 6 cities, 2 of which are active and you have a cycle update time of 15 minutes.  In 15 minutes, Meteo, will active the next two cities and deactivate the last two active cities and load new weather data.  This process continues indefinitely.\
\
The "Updates and Problems" box gives you a powerful tool for finding new updates and problems without bombarding me with emails and scrambling around trying to find out if Weather.com is down.  Someone may have to inform me at first, but after I find a problem, I will update the information to my server.  Then, if you were to click the button to the right of "Check for new versions on launch," you would be informed if there is a new version.  If you were to click a button right below it, you would be informed of any known problems with weather servers.  the two accompanying check boxes allow you to have these searches performed as soon as Meteo is launched.\
\
The "Display" tab offers several display tweeks that users have requested over and over again.  Here you can change whether or not temperature is displayed (that is, in the Dock or menu bar), and whether or not temperature is displayed with a C or F at the end (some people prefer just the degree sign).  You can also change whether an icon is displayed in the menu bar, if the city name is displayed in the menu bar, and the font, name, and size for any text in the menu bar.  Also, you can edit whether Meteo should display in the dock instead of the menu bar, the opacity of the dock image, and the font name and color of the temperature displayed in the dock.\
\
In the final tab, called "Units," are the global controls for units.  These are off by default.  As described above, Each city has their own unit preferences for each of its weather items.  If you would like to have all your cities use the same units for the same weather items, enabled the switch titled "Enabled global units" and then choose the units you would like to use.\
\
After you have made your changes remember to apply your preferences by hitting the "Apply" button - otherwise they will not appear in the menu bar or dock until you do so!  You will also be nagged to apply unsaved preferences when closing the preference window and when you quit Meteo next.}